doc: start local k3s instance (#764)
cytomine/cytomine: docs/src/admin-guide/docker/installation.md

::: tip
If you encounter issues during startup, refer to the [troubleshooting](./troubleshooting.md) guide.
:::

## Services and Ports

| Service       | Port  | Description                              |
|---------------|-------|------------------------------------------|
| `web-ui`      | 80    | Web user interface                       |
| `core`        | 8080  | Main Cytomine API server                 |
| `pims`        | 5001  | Image server (PIMS)                      |
| `iam`         | 8070  | Identity and access management (Keycloak)|
| `app-engine`  | 8082  | Algorithm / task runner                  |
| `cbir`        | 6000  | Content-based image retrieval            |
| `sam`         | 8000  | Segment Anything Model service           |
| `repository`  | 8081  | Artifact repository                      |
| `postgis`     | 5432  | Main PostgreSQL database                 |
| `mongo`       | 27017 | Activity / metadata database             |
| `app-engine-db` | 5433 | App Engine PostgreSQL database          |
| `registry`    | 5000  | Docker image registry for tasks          |
| `k3s`         | 6443  | Kubernetes API (used by App Engine)      |

## Data Persistence

> All persistent data (databases, images, registry) is stored under `./data/` by default. Override the location by setting `DATA_PATH` before starting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All persistent data is managed through Docker volumes, except for images and model weights, which are stored under ./data/ by default. You can override this location by setting DATA_PATH before starting:
```
Since #886, the data are managed by Docker volumes and only the images from `pims` and models weight from `sam` and `cbir` are managed by `DATA_PATH`

```bash
DATA_PATH=/mnt/data docker compose up -d
```

Images to import can be placed in a dataset directory. Override with `IMPORT_PATH`:

```bash
IMPORT_PATH=/path/to/slides docker compose up -d
```

## Building Images Locally

A `compose.override.yaml` file is provided to build Cytomine service images directly from source instead of pulling them from the registry. This is useful for development:

```bash

> docker compose up -d  # automatically merges compose.override.yaml if present

Reviewer: ```suggestion
docker compose up -d --build  # automatically merges compose.override.yaml if present
```

`docker compose up -d` will first fetch the images from the registry and if not found, it will only build them. If you want to build them, you have to add `--build` option
